---
lastSync: Wed Apr 09 2025 13:22:36 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)
---
- In statistics the term **population** ==refers to all individuals== (doesn't always refer to people) who belong to a group being studied
- A **sample** is a ==part of the population== that is chosen to represent the population
- **Variability** shows how ==samples are different from each other==. If we take multiple samples, the less variability among them means the samples represent the population well. 
- A good sample is representative of the population
- Different types of sampling methods
	- **Simple Random**: Every member of a population has an equal chance of being chosen
		- ex. put all names in a hat and select
	- **Systematic**: Go through population sequentially and selected members of regular intervals
		- ex. put names in alphabetical order and select every 10th person
	- **Stratified**: Take the same proportion of members from each group that share common characteristics. 
		- ex. Split students by grade and take the some from each grade. Depending on the size of the population
	- **Cluster**: All members of a certain group are used to represent the whole population
		- ex. Split students by grade and take jus the grade 12s
	- **Multi-Stage**: Use several levels of random sampling
		- ex. Randomly selecting a few school boards in Ontario, select a few districts from each school board, select a few schools from reach district, select a few students from each school
	- **Convenience**: A few students from each school selected because it is easily accessible
		- Ex friends and family
	- **Voluntary**: Researcher invites any member of the population to participate
		- ex. send all students link to a google form
## Examples
- Clarify the sampling method
	- a) A radio show hosts invites listeners to call in with their views on banning smoking in restaurants
		- Voluntary
	- b) The Heritage Ministry selects a sample of recent immigrants such that the proportions from each country of origin are the same as for all the immigrants last year. 
		- Stratified
	- c) A reporter stops people on a downtown street to ask what they think of the city's lakefront
		- Simple Random
	- d) A school guidance counsellor arranges interviews with every fifth student on the alphabetized attendance roster
		- Systematic
	- e) A statistician conducting a survey randomly selects 20 cities from across Canada, then 5 neighborhoods from each of the cities and 3 households from each of the neighborhoods
		- Multi-Stage
	- f) The province randomly chooses 25 public schools to participate in a new fundraising initiative. 
		- Cluster
