---
lastSync: Thu Apr 10 2025 14:38:25 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)
---
- Two different types of experiments: 
	- **Observational Studies**: Researchers look at situations that are already occurring and make inferences on what they observe
		- ex. students that wear glasses, check if they have a higher average
	- **Experimental Studies**: Researchers control what is going on in the experiment and make inferences based on controls
		- **Treatment Group**: Participants in an experiment who receive that specific treatment being studied
			- ex. give a group of students candy before the test
		- **Control Group**: Participants that don't receive the treatment (placebo)  
		- **Characteristics of effective experiments**: 
			- Good control, randomize members of treatment and control group and control groups, similar demographic makeup
- Example 1: A researcher interviews people as they leave the gym and finds that they get fewer colds compared to people who do not go to the gym.
	- a) Why is this an observational study?
		- They are not controlling any factors they are just asking anyone who comes out
	- b) What could be done to turn this into an experimental study
		- Choose 2 groups compare people who don't go to the gym
- Example 2: A botanist is studying the effects of acidity on rate of growth. Show grows one group of plants using water with neutral pH. She grows each other group using water with increasingly acidic pH levels. 
	- a) Which are the control and which are the experimental groups?
	- b) Why do you think groups of plants were used the there than one single plan for each pH level
- Surveys are a powerful way to gain information from a group o people. They are used as a way of collecting primary data
- Characteristics of a good survey
	- Clear, one question at a time, anonymous, free of bias
	- Rating scales need to be evenly distributed with good/bad outcomes
- Bias: Occurs when there is a prejudice for or against an idea or response
- Leading and loaded questions:
	- Leading questions prompt a particular answer
		- ex. what is your favorite subject -> math or science
	- 