---
lastSync: Mon Apr 14 2025 14:33:02 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)
---
## Lesson
- Bias in a statistical study occurs when there is a prejudice for or against an idea or response
	- For data to be valid, the collection methods must be free from bias
	- Intentional bias can be used to manipulate statistics in favor of a certain point of few
	- Unintentional bias can be introduced from collection methods
	- Different ways of displaying data can distort it and make it biased
- Different types of bias:
	- **Response Bias:** This occurs when participants in a survey deliberately give false or misleading answers might be on purpose or respondent is afraid or embarrassed to answer sensitive topic
		- ex Teacher asks out loud "Who had difficulty with the homework last night"
	- **Sampling Bias:** Occurs when sample chosen does not reflect the characteristics of the entire population. Data collection/Sampling techniques is flawed
		- ex The NBA wants to know the most popular basketball teams and they only ask Toronto
	- **Measurement Bias:** Occurs when the data collection method (tool) consistently under or overestimates a characteristic of a population. Happens when surveys with leading or loaded questions.
		- Do small yappy dogs make good pets?
	- **Non-response Bias:** Occurs when particular groups are under represented in a survey because they choose not to participate
		- ex. Radio shows asks listeners to call in to talk about upcoming elections
## Examples
- a) A highway engineer suggests that an economical way to survey traffic speeds on the expressway would be to have the police officers who patrol the highway record the speed of the traffic using a radar gun three times a day.
	- Measurement bias
- b) An aid agency in a developing country wants to know what proportion of households have at least on personal computer. One of the agency's staff members conducts a survey by calling households randomly selected from a telephone directory.
	- Sampling Bias
- c) A group of city councilors are asked whether they have ever taken part in an illegal protest.
	- Response bias
- d) A teacher posts a link to a survey about their opinion on the new school schedule on the school twitter account
	- Non-response Bias