---
lastSync: Tue Feb 11 2025 11:39:35 GMT-0500 (Eastern Standard Time)
---
## Lesson
- Probabilities:
	- Theoretical
		- Definition
			- Is deduced from analysis of the possible [[1.1 Introduction to Probability|outcomes]]
			- All possibilities are equally likely
		- Examples: 
			- Lee has a green hat, a black hat, and a grey hat. She also has green gloves, black gloves, and red gloves. In a hurry lee randomly grabs a hat and pair of gloves. Determine the theoretical probability that the hat and gloves are the same color
				- $p(\text{matching})=\frac{3}{9}=\frac{1}{3}$
			- A box contains 3 bran, 4 banana, 5 blueberry, and 3 carrot muffins. What is the theoretical probability that you will randomly choose a blueberry muffin?
				- $p(\text{blueberry})=\frac{5}{15}=\frac{1}{3}$
	- Experimental
		- Definition:
			- Is determined by dividing the number of times that an [[1.1 Introduction to Probability|event]] happens in an experiment
			- The more times a trial is conducted the closer the experimental probability gets to theoretical probability
		- Example:
			- A market researcher is conducting a telephone poll to gather data about which type of television service families use the most. The table illustrates the results:
				- a) Determine the experimental probability of using each television service the most.
					- $p(\text{cable})=\frac{48}{115}$
					- $p(\text{internet})=\frac{15}{115}=\frac{3}{23}$
					- $p(\text{none})=\frac{6}{115}$
					- $p(\text{satellite})=\frac{42}{115}$
					- $p(\text{antenna})=\frac{4}{115}$
				- b) Who might be interested in these results, and for what purpose:
					- Advertisers
					- Tech companies
					- Consumers
				- c) Suggest how these results may change overtime. Explain why you think so
					- The numbers will have gone down due to decrease from internet traffic
	- Subjective
		- Definition
			- An estimate of likelihood based on intuition and experience
			- An educated guess
		- Examples:
			- Estimate the subjective probability of each of the following outcomes.
				- $p(\text{you will have a snow day in july where you live})=0.01$%
				- $p(\text{the sun will set in the west tonight})=99.99$%
				- $p(\text{the next person to enter the school cafeteria will be female})=45$%
	- Odds
		- Defintion
			- An application of probability often used in sports
			- usually listed as a ratio in lowest terms
			- different from probability
		- Odds in favor
			- $P(A):P(A')$
			- $\frac{n(A)}{n(S)}\div \frac{n(A')}{n(S)}$
			- $\frac{n(A)}{n(S)}\times \frac{n(S)}{n(A')}$				
			- $\frac{n(A)}{n(A')}$
		- Examples
			- The probability that it will rain tomorrow is 80%
				- a) what are the odds in favor of it raining?
					- odds in favor = 80:20
					- odds in favor = 4:1
				- b) what are the odds against it raining
					- odds against = 20:80
					- odds against = 1:4
			- If the odds in favor of event A happening are 2:7, what is the probability of event A happening?
				- $p(A)=\frac{2}{9}$
			- If the odds against event A happening are 5:3, what is the probability of event A happening 
				- $p(A)=\frac{3}{8}$