---
lastSync: Tue Feb 11 2025 11:39:30 GMT-0500 (Eastern Standard Time)
---
## Lesson
- Independent
	- A coin is flipped three times in a row. 
		- What is the probability of flipping a head on the third flip?
			- $p(\text{Head on 3rd flip})=\frac{1}{2}$
		- What is the probability of flipping a head three times in a row?
			- $p(\text{head 3 times})=\left( \frac{1}{2} \right)^3=\frac{1}{8}$
		- In general, the compound probability of independent events can be calculated using the rule for independent events: 
			- $p(\text{A and B})=p(A)\times p(B)$
			- The probability of both A and B occurring equals the probability of A occurring times the probability of B occurring
- Dependent
	- Probability of drawing 2 diamonds in a row:
		- $p(\text{2 diamonds})=\frac{13}{52}\times \frac{12}{51}=$
	- Coin flipping is an independent event while drawing cards sequentially is an dependent event
		- $p(\text{A and B})=p(A)\times p(B|A)$
		- The probability of B given that A has occurred (Conditional probability)
## Examples
- When rolling a pair of dice in a raw, what is the probability of rolling doubles twice?
	- Independent event
	- $p(\text{Doubles in a row})=\frac{6}{36}\times \frac{6}{36}=\frac{1}{36}$
- A drawer contains 4 red and 3 blue socks. Three socks are randomly picked on at a time, and after each pick the sock is replaced. What is the probability that you will get 2 red socks on your first 2 picks and then a non-red sock.
	- Independent event
	- $p(\text{Red, Red, Blue})=\frac{4}{7}\times \frac{4}{7} \times \frac{3}{7}=\frac{48}{343}$
- What is the probability in the scenario above if the socks are not replaced after each pick?
	- Dependent event
	- $p(\text{Red, Red, Blue})=\frac{4}{7}\times \frac{3}{6} \times \frac{3}{5}=\frac{6}{35}$
## Homework
- Pg 54, 1-4, 6, 8
- 1. 
	- c)
- 2. 
	- b)
- 3. 
	- d)
- 4. 
	- a) $\frac{1}{9}$
	- b) $\frac{1}{6}$
	- because there will be 1/2 chance vs 1/3 chance in each scenario for the second draw
- 6.
	- 4
- 8. 
	- $\frac{6}{22}\times \frac{7}{21}=\frac{42}{462}$
	- $\frac{2}{22}\times \frac{1}{21}=\frac{2}{462}$
	- $\frac{2}{22}\times \frac{1}{21} \times \frac{0}{20}=0$
- jd