---
lastSync: Sun Mar 02 2025 20:38:18 GMT-0500 (Eastern Standard Time)
---
Chapter 2 Review: PERMUTATIONS
Topics to study (2.2-2.5, 3.1):
- Fundamental Counting Principle
- Permutations and Factorials
- Rule of Sum
- Probability Problems Using Permutations
- Permutations with Non-Ordered Elements
- 1. Write as a single factorial: 10! x 11 x 12 _______
- 2. Simplify without using a calculator. Show your work.
	- 100!/98!=$\frac{100\times 99 \times 98!}{98!}=100\times 99$

- 3. Evaluate by first expressing in terms of factorials using the nPr formula. Show your work. 
	- 15P3=15!/(15-3)!

- 5. A chef and her staff have prepared a five-course menu. For the first course, a garden salad or caesar salad will be served. For the second course, there are three different types of soup to choose from. For the third course, there are four different types of pasta dishes being offered. For the main course, they are offering chicken, steak, lamb, or fish, or vegetarian. Finally, for dessert, the menu states three options: cheesecake, chocolate mousse, or pecan pie. How many different five-course meals are available at this restaurant?
	- $3 \times 4 \times 5 \times 3=$

- 5. Kyle has a spinner with three colours: green, orange, and blue. If he spins it 4 times in a row, how many different orders are possible?
	- $3^4$

- 7. A code consists of 3 capital (uppercase) letters followed by 2 digits.
	- a) If no repetition is allowed, how many different codes are available?
		- $26 \times 25 \times 24 \times 10 \times 9$
	- b) If repetition is allowed, how many different codes are available?
		- $26^3 \times 10^2$

	- c) If the first letter must be “B” and the last digit must be nine, and no repetition is allowed, how many different codes are available?
		- $1 \times 25 \times 24 \times 9 \times 1 =$

	- d) If lower case letters are allowed and repetition is not allowed, how many more different codes are available than in question a)?
		- $(52 \times 51 \times 50 \times 10 \times 9)-(26 \times 25 \times 24 \times 10 \times 9)=$

- 7. In how many ways can you roll a 9 or a 12 with a pair of dice?
	- $4+1=5$

- 8. In how many ways can you draw a face card or a spade from a standard deck of cards?
	- $12+13-3=22$

- 9. 
	- a) In how many ways can you draw a diamond, then another diamond from a standard deck of cards (if the first card is not replaced)?
		- $13\times 12=$

	- b) In how many ways can you draw a diamond, then another diamond from a standard deck of cards from a deck that has had the face cards removed (if the first card is replaced)?
		- $10 \times 10=$

- 10. Mya sails with a crew who travel extensively and must keep a variety of flags on board to fly, depending on the situation. She must always fly at least three flags. She has five different flags available. If the order of the flags matters, how many different flag variations are possible?
	- $5\times 4 \times 3+5 \times 4 \times 3 \times 2+5 \times 4 \times 3 \times 2 \times 1$ 
- 1. Doug and Susan are on the same volleyball team. In how many ways can the 11 players (which include Doug and Susan) on the team be seated on one long bench so that Doug and Susan are not seated next to each other?
	- $11!-10!\times 2=$

- 3. a) How many ways can the ten members of a club sit at a circular table?
	- $9!$
- b) If the president and vice president of the club must sit together at the circular table, then how many arrangements are possible?
	- $8!\times 2$

- 13. How many distinct ways can all the letters of the word MISSISSIPPI be arranged?
	- $\frac{10!}{4!4!2!}=$
- 1. Find the number of arrangements of all the letters in “COLLEGIATE"
	- a) if there are no restrictions
		- $\frac{10!}{2!2!}$
	- b) if the 2 Ls must be together
		- $\frac{9!}{2!}$
	- c) if it has to start with C
		- $\frac{9!}{2!2!}$
	- d) if it has to start with C and end with E
		- $\frac{8!}{2!2!}$
	- e) if G and I must be separated
		- $\frac{10!}{2!2!}-\frac{9!}{2!2!}$
	- f) if C is directly before O
		- $\frac{9!}{2!2!}$
	- g) if the vowels must stay all together
		- $\frac{4!}{2!}$

- 15. In how many ways can all the letters of the word SEPTEMBER be arranged if the consonants must always be in the order in which they occur in the word itself?
	-  $\frac{9!}{6!3!}=$

- 17. 
	- a) How many six-digit even numbers less than 200 000 can be formed using (only) the digits 1, 1, 2, 2, 3, 5?
		- $\frac{4!}{2!} \times 3+ 4!$
	- b) How many even numbers less than 200 000 can be formed using (only) the digits 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6?
		- $5!$

- 17. A bag contains letters with tiles with the letters A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H and I.
	- i) What is the probability that if you take exactly 3 letters out, one at a time, without replacing
		- a) that you will get all 3 vowels?
			-  $\frac{3!}{9 \times 8 \times 7}$
			- $\frac{3!}{9^3}$
	- b) that you will spell the word BAD?
		- $\frac{1}{9 \times 8 \times 7}$
		- $\frac{1}{9^3}$
	- ii) What if you did replace the tiles after each selection?
		- 

18. What is the probability that at least 2 students in a class of 33 have the same birthday?