---
lastSync: Wed Mar 12 2025 19:29:38 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)
---
## Lesson
- [[2.2 Fundamental Counting Principle|Fundamental Counting Principle]]
	- If a task is made of stages with separate choices the total number of options is mxnxp where m is the number of choices for the first stage, n for the second stage and so on.
	- Examples
		- How many ways can you draw a 6, then a face card from a standard deck of cards assuming the first card is not replaced?
			- 4x12=48
		- A couple is getting married and is planning to have a three course menu for thier reception. They have narrowed it down to the following options: Salad or soup, chicken, fish, beef or vegetarian, creme Brule or gelato?
			- 2x4x2=16
- Rule of sum
	- If one event has m possible outcomes and a second mutually exclusive event has n possible outcomes, then the number of number of outcomes corresponding to one or the other event occurring is m+n
		- Examples:
			- How many ways can you draw a 6 or a face card from a standard deck of cards?
				- 4+12=16
			- A couple is getting married and is not sure if they want a three course, four course, or five course menu for their reception. For each of the number course options, they have 3 options for each of the courses. How many possible menus are available? 
				- 3^3+3^4+3^5=36
	- If two events are not mutually exclusive, the principle of inclusion and exclusion needs to be considered:
		- $n(\text{A or B})=n(A)+n(B)-n(A \cap B)$
		- Examples:
			- How many ways are there to draw a red card or a face card from a standard deck of cards?
			- $n(\text{Red or Face})=26+12-6=42$
## Examples
- 1. Larry prefers classical music, but also likes jazz. His friend lee has a collection of CDs that includes 35 classical CDs, 20 rock CDs, and 12 jazz CDs. In how many ways can Lee select a CD that will suit Larry's msucial tastes
	- 35+12=42
- 2. An all-star baseball team has a roster that includes 7 pitchers and 3 catchers. How many pairs of pitcher and catcher (different batteries) can the manager select from this roster? 
	- 7x3=21
- 3. The Greek Alphabet contains 24 letters. How many different Greek letter fraternity names can be formed using either 2 or 3 letters if repetition is allowed?
	- 24^2+24^3=14400
- 4. A ship carries 4 signal flags of different colors. How many different signals could be sent using a least 2 flags for each signal. Note:  The order of the flags matter
	- 4x3+4x3x2+4x3x2x1
	- 4P2+4P3+4P4=60
## Homework
Pg 86 1-7