---
lastSync: Mon Feb 24 2025 14:44:02 GMT-0500 (Eastern Standard Time)
---
## Lesson
- Counting techniques and/or fundamental counting principle can be used in [[1.1 Introduction to Probability|probability]] problems
	- $p(\text{a})=\frac{n(A)}{n(S)}$
	- $p(A)+p(A')=1$
- Three people form a queue at a grocery store. What is the probability that they line up in descending order of age. 
	- There is only one order in which they can line up
	- $p(\text{descending})=\frac{1}{3!}=\frac{1}{6}$
	- If it says order of age assume it can be either descending or ascending
- In horseracing, a bet in which the person betting forecasts the first three finishers in a race in the correct order it called a trifecta. Nina horses are entered in a a race. Will knows nothing about horseracing and randomly picks a trifecta. he picks My Man Sam to win, Majesty to pace and Brody's Cause to show. What is the probability Will wins on his trifecta. 
	- $p(\text{Will Wins})=\frac{1}{_{9}P_{3}}=\frac{1}{504}$
- A four-letter word jumble is formed from the letters of the word CHEMISTRY. What is the probability that it
	- a) Spells MIST
		- $\frac{1}{9P 4}$
	- b) Includes the letters M I S T
		- $\frac{4!}{9P 4}$
	- c) Includes the letter M
		- $8P 3 \times 4$
- The flip in Texas Hold em poker is 3 cards dealt one at a time in the center of the table. Assuming that all 52 cards are available when the flop is dealt, find the probability that the flop consists 
	- Three fives
		- $p(\text{3 fives})=\frac{4 \times 3 \times 2}{52P 3}$
	- Three of a kind
		- $p(\text{3 of a kind})=\frac{52 \times 3 \times 2}{52P 3}$
	- Three cards of the same suit
		- $p(\text{3 of same suit})= \frac{52 \times 12 \times 11}{52P 3}$
	- Three cards of different suits
		- $p(\text{different suits})=\frac{52 \times 39 \times 26}{52P 3}$
- What is the probability that at least 2 people in the class of 23 people have the same birthday? 