---
lastSync: Fri May 09 2025 13:03:34 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)
---
## Lesson
- You can display data in multiple ways. Sometimes data are deliberately distorted to make an argument more convincing.
- The media often sensationalizes data to generate pubic interest
	- Ex "Energy drinks are killing our children"
- Investigate bias in two variable data.
	- 1. What is the same about he formation in the graphs? What is different?
		- The same scores are being displayed and the same years are being reported (x axis). The y axis are different and the title. 
	- 2. Identify any elements of vias present in these two graphs
		- Title and y axis - The first graph shows positive results, while the second graph portrays a negative message.
	- 3. Suggest a particular group that might have constructed each graph and explain why the group might have presented the graph in the way that it did. 
		- 1st graph - government - implemented grogram, want to show that it produced results.
		- 2nd graph - opposing political party, teacher unions, parents - show that public education needs more funding
- How you choose to display data can have a significant impact on how a reader is likely to interpret them.
	- Changing the vertical scale on a graph can make a relatively small trend appear larger, or vice versa. Intentional use of biased words can influence the interpretation of data. 
## Example
- 1. Fighting in hockey
	- Bias
		- Title: 
			- Language is not neutral
			- used to convince that fighting is on the decline
		- Vertical Scale
			- Scale doesn't start at 0
			- Used to exaggerate thee downward trend
		- Outliers
			- There was labor disruption in this season so less games were played
			- Used to exaggerate downward trends
		- Small Sample Size
			- Only five seasons are shown. Hides trend over a long period of time
	- To present the data more fairly we can: 
		- Remove the outlier
		- Use a larger sample size
		- Use a more neutral title
		- Start vertical scale at 0
	- 