---
lastSync: Sun Mar 16 2025 16:43:14 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)
---
- 1. A plane flies 300 mi. east from city A to city B in 45 min. and then 600 mi. south from city B to city C in 1.5 h. (a) Calculate the magnitude and direction of the displacement vector that represents the total trip. Calculate (b) the average velocity vector and (c) the average speed for the trip.
- 2. In a cathode-ray tube, a beam of electrons is projected horizontally with a speed of 1.0x109 cm/s into a region between a pair of horizontal plates 2.0 cm long. An electric field between the plates causes a constant downward acceleration of the electrons of magnitude 1.0x1017 cm/s2. Find 
	- (a) the time required for the electrons to pass through the plates, 
	- (b) the vertical displacement of the beam in passing through the plates, and (c) the components of the velocity of the beam is it emerges from the plates.
- 3. A dart is thrown horizontally toward the bull’s eye, point P on the dart board, with an initial speed of 10 m/s. It hits at point Q on the rim, vertically below P, 0.19 s later. 
	- (a) Calculate the distance PQ. 
	- (b) How far away from the dart board did the player stand?
- 4. A rifle is aimed horizontally at a target 100 ft. away. The bullet hits the target 0.75 in. below the aiming point. 
	- (a) Calculate the bullet’s time of flight. 
	- (b) Calculate the muzzle velocity of the rifle. (g = 32 ft/s2)

- 5. A stone is thrown with an initial velocity of 20 m/s at an angle of 40o above the horizontal. Find its horizontal and vertical displacements 
	- (a) 1.1 s and 
	- (b) 5.0 s after launch.
- 6. Prove that for a projectile fired from the surface of level ground at an angle θ above horizontal, the ratio of the maximum height H to the range R is given by 
	- H/R=1/4tanθ

- 7. Show that the maximum height reached by a projectile is
	- $y_{max}=\frac{(v\sin\theta)^2}{2g}$

Motion in a Plane 2
8. A football is kicked off with an initial speed of 64 ft/s at a projection angle of 45o
.
A receiver on the goal line 60 yd away in the direction of the kick starts running
to meet the ball at that instant. Calculate his average speed if he is to catch the
ball just before it hits the ground. Neglect air resistance.
9. A sprinter runs at 9.2 m/s around a circular track with a centripetal acceleration of
3.8 m/s2
. (a) Calculate the track radius. (b) How long does it take to go
completely around the track at this speed?
10. A boat is traveling at 14 km/h with respect to the water of a river in the upstream
direction. The water itself if flowing at 9 km/h with respect to the ground. (a)
Calculate the velocity of the boat with respect to the ground. (b) A child on the
boat walks from bow to stern at 6 km/h with respect to the boat. Calculate the
child’s velocity with respect to the ground.
11. Snow is falling vertically at a constant speed of 8.0 m/s. At what angle from the
vertical do the snowflakes appear to be falling as viewed by the driver of a car
traveling on a straight road with a speed of 50 km/h?
12. A battleship steams due east at 24 km/h. A submarine 4.0 km away fires a
torpedo that has a speed of 50 km/h. If the bearing of the ship as seen from the
submarine is 20o

east of north, (a) in what direction should the torpedo be fired to
hit the ship, and (b) what will be the running time for the torpedo to reach the
battleship?