---
lastSync: Sun Mar 16 2025 17:20:43 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)
---
## Lesson
- Combination: Selection from a group without regard to order
- Comparing Permutations and Combinations
	- List the permutations of the letter MAT
		- 3! choices, 6 permutations
		- There are **6 permutations** but if order does not matter than there is **1 combination**
	- When selecting 2 letters from the word MATH, the different permutations are:
		- 12 permutations, $4P_{2}=12$
		- 6 combinations, $\frac{4P_{2}}{2!}=6$
	- When selecting 3 students from a group of 4 students, the different permutations are:
		- 24 permutations, $4P_{3}=24$
		- 4 combinations, $4C_{3}=\frac{4P_{3}}{3!}=4$
	- $$\text{Number of Combintations}=\frac{\text{number of permutations}}{\text{number of permutations of objects selected}}$$
- The number of combinations of r objects chosen from a set of n distinct objects
	- $nCr=\frac{nPr}{r!}$
	- $=\frac{\frac{n!}{(n-r)!}}{r!}$
	- $=\frac{n!}{(n-r)!} \times \frac{1}{r!}$
	- $=\frac{n!}{(n-r)!r!}$
## Example
- 1. In a competition, junior chefs make a gourmet soup by selecting from 10 different ingredients. How many different soups can the chefs make if the soup must include
	- a) Four ingredients?
		- $10C_{4}=210$
	- b) 5 or 6 ingredients?
		- $10C_{5}+10C_{6}=462$
- 2. Erica is making a platter of four types of cheese and four types of crackers. She has seven different cheese and six different cracker's available to her. In how many ways can Erica make the platter? 
	- $7C_{6} \times 6C_{4}=525$
- 3. A bridge hand consists of 13 cards. How many bridge hands include 5 cards of one suit, 6 cards of a second suit, and 2 cards of a third suit?
	- $13C_{5} \times 13C_{6} \times 13C_{2} \times 4P_{3}=4134297024$
		- Since the suit order matters, due to card numbers, 4P3 is used to calculate the order of suits.
- 4. An ice cream shop offers 31 different flavors. They offer a sundae with 1, 2, or 3 scoops. Assuming you don't repeat flavors in the 2 or 3 scoops, how many different sundaes are available? 
	- $31C_{1}+31C_{2}+31C_{3}=4991$
- 5. The school gardening club consists of 5 boys and 5 girls. How many working groups of 4 people can be formed with
	- No restrictions
		- $10C_{4}=210$
	- Four Boys
		- $5C_{4}=5$
	- Three boys and a girl?
		- $5C_{3} \times 5C_{1}=50$
	- Two boys and Two Girls?
		- $5C_{2} \times 5C_{2}=100$
	- A boy and three girls?
		- $5C_{1}\times 5C_{3}=50$
	- Four Girls?
		- $5C_{4}=5$
- 6. A standard deck of playing cards consists of 52 cards. 5 different cards are selected at random. The order in which the cards are selected does not matter. Determine how many 5 card hands can be formed with:
	- No restrictions
		- $52C_{5}=2598960$
	- 3 Spades and 2 Clubs
		- $13C_{3} \times 13C_{2}$