---
lastSync: Thu Mar 27 2025 11:15:39 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)
---
- 1. Fill in the missing numbers in this portion of pascals triangle:
- 9. If you have 15 people on staff for a small company and a social committee must be chosen from these people, how many different committees are possible if 
	- a) at least one person must be chosen for this committee?
		- $2^{15}-1$
	- b) at least two people must be chosen?
		- $2^{15}-15C 1-1$
- 12. How many subsets (no repetition) of five different letters that contain three consonants and two vowels can be made from the set of letters of the English alphabet?  (Remember: subsets imply that order does not matter)
	- a)
		- $21C 3 \times 5C 2$
	- b) What is the probability that the subset contains the vowels A and E?
		- $21C 3$
- 13. 
	- a) How many ways can you choose a group of four from a club of 20 students that has eight grade 11 students and twelve grade 12 students?
		- 20C4
	- b) How many ways can you choose the group of four if you must have an equal number of grade 11 and grade 12 students?
		- 8C2x12C2
	- c) How many ways can you choose the group of four if at least one must be in grade 12?
		- 20C4-8C4
	- d) What is the probability that one of the grade 12 students, Rita, and two of the grade 11 students, Sana and Steve, are not chosen for the group of four?
		- $17C_{4}$
	- e) How many ways can the group of four students be chosen to be the president, vice president, secretary, and public relations for the club?
		- 20P4
- 14. An athletic committee with three members is to be randomly selected from a group of six basketball players, four badminton players, and eight track team members.  Determine the probability, as a fraction in lowest terms, that 
	- a) the committee is comprised entirely of track team members
		- $8C_{3}$
	- b) the committee is represented by each of the three types of athletes
		- 8x4x6
	- c) the committee contains at least one badminton player
		- 18C3-16C3
	- d) the committee contains at most one basketball player
  		- 6C1x12C2+6C0x12C3
- 15. When selecting from a group of six basketball players, four badminton players, and eight track team members, how many ways can you choose a group of 6 with an equal amount of each player and then line them up for a picture?
	- a) $(8C 2 \times 6C 2 \times 4C 2)\times 6!$
- 16. Sara is carrying six pages of math homework and four pages of English homework.  A gust of wind blows the pages out of her hands and she is only able to recover seven random pages.  What is the probability that she recovers at least five pages of her math homework?
	- $\frac{(6C 5\times 4C 2)+(6C 6 \times 4C 1)}{10C 7}$
- 17. A bridge hand consists of 13 cards dealt from a well-shuffled deck of 52 cards.  What is the probability that a hand contains a 7-card suit (7 cards belonging to the same suit)? State as a percent, to the nearest hundredth.
	- $\frac{13C_{7} \times 39C_{6} \times 4}{52C_{13}}$

## Quiz
- 1. How many different sums of money can be made with a nickel, a dime, a quarter, 2 loonies and a 10 dollar bill
	- $2 \times 2 \times 2 \times 3 \times 2 -1=47$
- 2. In how many ways can a committee with ten members form a sub-committee with a t least one person on it?
	- $2^{10}-1=1023$
- 3. If you are dealing from a standard deck of 52 cards, how many 8 card hands can you make if
	- a) You must have exactly 3 spades. 
		- $13C 3\times 39C 5=164666502$
	- b) if you must have at least two face cards
		- $52C 8 - 40C 8 \times 12C0 -40C 7 \times 12C 1=451910745$
	- c) if you must have exactly 2 jacks or exactly 2 kings?
		- $48C 6 \times 4C 2 + 48C 6 \times 4C 2 - 48C 4 \times 4C 2 \times 4C 2=140253264$
	- d) If you must have at least 3 clubs and 3 diamonds
		- $52C 8-(13C 2 \times 13C 2 \times 26C 4)-2(13C 2 \times 13 C 1 \times 26C 5) - 2(13C 2 \times 13 C 0 \times 26C 6)$$-(13C 1 \times 13C 1 \times 26C 6) - 2(13C 1 \times 13C 0\times 26C 7)-(13C 0 \times 13C 0 \times 26C 8)=43469068$
- 4. There are 21 technicians and 14 chemists working in a research laboratory. In how many ways could they form a 5 member safety committee if the committee
	- a) Must have exactly 3 chemists:
		- $14C_{3} \times 21C_{2}=76440$
	- b) Must be all technicians or all chemists:
		- $21C_{5} + 14C_{5}=22351$
	- c) Must have two chemists (in which one is a lead chemist and the other an assistant lead chemist) and 3 technicians (in which one is a lead technician, one is an assistant lead technician, and one is the safety representative)
		- $14P_{2} \times 21P_{3}=1452360$
	- d) Must have at most 2 chemists
		- $21C_{3} \times 14C_{2} + 21C_{4} \times 14C_{1} + 21C_{5}=225169$
	- e) Must have at least one technician
		- $35C_{5}-14C_{5}$
	- f) one of the technicians, Dana, and one of the chemists, Annie, refuse to serve on the committee together
		- $35C_{5} - 33C_{3}$
	- g) one of the technicians, Jack, must serve on the committee
		- $1 \times 34C_{4}$
- 5. How many different possible ways can one gift bag of school supplies be made if you can only choose from 4 red binders, 5 blue notebooks, 7 packages of lined paper, and one box of markers
	- a) if there must be at least one item in the bag?
		- $5 \times 6 \times 9 \times 2 -1$
	- b) if there must be exactly one binder and at least one package of lined paper in the bag?
		- $1 \times 6 \times 8 \times 2$

