---
lastSync: Sat Apr 05 2025 18:03:57 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)
---
## Lesson
- A hypergeometric probability distribution is a distribution with ==dependent trials== whose outcomes are either success or failure, (eg dealing cards from a standard deck of cards, selecting a committee)
	- Independent trials refer to something where the trials of others do not affect the other trials
	- Dependent trials refer to something where the trials do affect the other trials
	- A random variable is the number of successes in a given number of trials
- The probability of $x$ successful outcomes in $r$ dependent trials, Where $a$ is the number of successful outcomes available in a population size $n$ is
	- $$P(x)=\frac{aCx \times n-aCr-x}{nCr}$$
- Example 1: Hypergeometric Probability: On a team of 15 astronauts, six are women and nine are men. If four astronauts are selected at random for a flight simulation, what is the probability that two men are selected. 
	- $$p(\text{2 men})=\frac{9C_{2} \times 6C_{2}}{15C_{4}}=\frac{36}{91}$$
- Example 2: A bag consists of 10 jellybeans. Four are blue and six are green. Four jellybeans are selected at random.
	- a) show the probability distribution for the number of green jellybeans selected.

| Number of green jellybeans, x | P(x)                                 |
| ----------------------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| 0                             | $\frac{6C_{0}\times4C_{4}}{10C_{4}}$ |
| 1                             | $\frac{6C_{1}\times4C_{3}}{10C_{4}}$ |
| 2                             | $\frac{6C_{2}\times4C_{2}}{10C_{4}}$ |
| 3                             | $\frac{6C_{3}\times4C_{1}}{10C_{4}}$ |
| 4                             | $\frac{6C_{4}\times4C_{0}}{10C_{4}}$ |
|                               |                                      |
- b) 
- c) What does p(0) tell you?
	- P(0) gives us the probability of selecting zero green jelly beans. It is 0.0048 and it is highly unlikely that you will select 0 green jelly beans
- d) Calculate expectation and explain its meaning
	- $e(x)=0(0.0048)+1(0.1143)+2(0.4286)+3(0.3810)+4(0.0714)=2.4$
	- When selecting 4 jelly beans from this bag, on average you will get 2.4 green jelly beans
- Expectation for a hypergeometric Distribution
	- The ratio of the expectation to the number of trials is proportional to the ratio of the number of available successes to the size of the population
		- $$\frac{e(x)}{r}=\frac{a}{n}$$
		- so$$e(x)=\frac{ra}{n}$$
- Example 3: Apply the hypergeometric distribution to selection: Twenty four students have signed up to attend a workshop. Fourteen are female and ten are male. Seven are randomly chosen to attend.
	- a) What is the probability that at least three are male
		- $$p(\text{ at least three male})=\text{total}-p(1)-p(2)-p(0)$$
		- $$p(\text{ at least three male})=24C_{7}-\frac{10C_{1}\times 14C_{6}}{24C_{7}}-\frac{10C_{2}\times 14C_{5}}{24C_{7}}-\frac{10C_{0}\times 14C_{7}}{24C_{7}}=\frac{281}{437}$$
	- b) What is the expected number of male and female students chosen
		- $$e(X)=\frac{ra}{n}$$
		- Male$$e(x)=\frac{7(10)}{24}=2.9$$
		- Female$$e(x)=7-2.9=4.1$$
- Example 4: During one summer, 500 foxes were caught and vaccinated them against rabies. At that time they were also tagged, 80 foxes were later caught to estimate the size of the population and 34 of them had been caught before. Estimate the size of the population.
	- Method One: $$E(x)=\frac{ra}{n}$$
	- $$34=\frac{80(500)}{n}$$
	- $$\frac{80(500)}{34}=n$$
	- $$1176.47=n$$
	- $$\therefore \text{the fox population is approximately 1176}$$
	- Method 2:$$\text{tagged 500} \to \text{?}, 34 \to 80$$
	- $$\frac{500}{34}=\frac{n}{80}$$
	- $$\frac{500(80)}{34}=n$$
	- $$\therefore \text{the fox population is approximately 1176}$$
